# Usage Instruction

**Start the Software Server**

• Log in the linux instance as a ec2-user

• Change directory to /home/ec2-user/server

• Run the script &quot;run.sh&quot; by entering the command

$ ./run.sh -dv –h:2 &amp;

• Wait till the message &quot;Server started successfully&quot; is displayed on the screen.

• Server startup options -h: [Number of habitats] -dv [Disable verification].

**Stop the Software Server**

• Log in the linux instance as a ec2-user

• Change directory to /home/ec2-user/server

• Run the script &quot;stop.sh&quot; by entering the command

$ ./stop.sh -k

• Server shutdown options

-k : This stops the server immediately. All the tasks that are running at that point get terminated.

**Access software UI:-**

- Navigate to URL http://Public_DNS:45450/new (Recommended to use Google Chrome)
- Login with:

User: [gidadmin@globalids.com](mailto:gidadmin@globalids.com)

Password: developer (Recommended to change the password after first login)

**Steps to be performed**

**Step 1: Configure your business entities**

Your databases need to be categorized by business entities. You can view all business entities created using the software from Transparency → Workspaces → Datasources → Databases → Business Entities block in the blue panel on the right of the UI.

The Business Entities tabular view lists the following:

• Name of the business entity

• Owner of the business entity

**Add business entity**

You can add a business entity from this page.

• Click on Add Business Entity button.

• In Add new Business Entity window, enter the name and description for the business entity. Description is optional.

• After you are done, click Submit.

**Step 2: Configure your applications**

A business entity comprises of applications. You can view all applications created using the software from Transparency → Workspaces → Datasources → Databases → Applications block in the blue panel on the right.

The Applications tabular view lists the following:

• Name of the application

• Enterprise ID: Auto-generated ID for the application

• Business Entity associated with the application

• Owner of the application

**Add application**

You can add an application from this page.

• Click on Add Application button .

• In Add new Application window, enter name and description to the application. Description is optional.

• Business Entity drop-down lists all business entities created using the software. Select the appropriate one from this list.

• Enterprise ID is auto-generated by the software.

• You can add a Tag to an Application and search by it.

• After you are done, click Add .

**Step 3: Connect to your data sources**

You can view all databases for which connection has been created using the software from Transparency → Workspaces → Datasources → Databases → Databases block in the blue panel on the right.

The Databases tabular view lists the following:

• Name: Name of the database instance

• Host: The system which hosts the database instance

• Port: Port on which the database is running

• Database Type

• Application

• Connection Name

• Owner of the database

**Connect to a database**

You can add a database connection from this page.

• Click Add Connection .

• In Add Datasource window, click on a database type.

• In the Add Connection window, the database type is populated depending on your selection.

The default port for the selected database type is populated. You can change it if required. Enter database name, user ID and password. Test the connection using Test Connection . You may scan all schemas or select specific schemas to scan.

• On selecting a business entity, the associated application is populated. If there is no application associate with the selected business entity, it remains blank.

• The connection name is automatically populated. You are free to customize it provided it is unique and does not match with an existing connection name.

• You can Tag a Database and search by it.

• After you are done, click Submit to run the job immediately. Click Schedule to run on a specific date/time.

**Step 4: View your schemas**

You can view all schemas scanned using the software from Transparency → Workspaces → Datasources → Databases → Schemas block in the blue panel on the right.

**Step 5: View your tables**

You can view all tables in the scanned schemas from Transparency → Workspaces → Datasources → Databases → Tables block in the blue panel on the right.

**Step 6: View your columns**

You can view all tables in the scanned schemas from Transparency → Workspaces → Datasources → Databases → Columns block in the blue panel on the right.

**Column Profile Results**

You can view complete profile information of columns which are discovered and profiled using the software. The Profile page lists the following blocks of profile information:

**Step 7: Manage and curate your domains**

The Curate functionality allows the business users to organize the data landscape and map the physical data elements to the logical concept. The information architects train the Machine Learning model by curating the domains with feedback, so that it can predict matches when a new data source is on-boarded. You can manage and curate the domains using the software from Transparency → Workspaces → Curate → Domains → Domains block in the blue panel on the Left.

The Domains tabular view lists the following:

• Name of the Domains

• Number of Predicted Columns

• Percentage of Classification Accuracy

• Users can add and edit Tags

• Owner of the Domains

Add a Domain You can add a new domain. Follow the instructions below to add a domain.

• Click on add new domain button .

• In the Add new Domain window, provide name and description. Description is optional.

• Select business entity from dropdown.

• You can also optionally specify a domain as a sensitive domain.

• Assign the new domain a category from the add domain categories tree structure.

• After you are done, click Add

**Edit a Domain**

After you add a domain, you can make changes to it. Follow the instructions below to edit a domain.

• Choose edit in domain details to update name, description, business entity and sensitive domain checkbox. Description is optional. Specifying sensitive domain is optional.

• Choose edit in tags to add or update tag category and tag label. After you are done, click Associate .

• Choose edit in domain categories to update existing assigned domain categories from the tree structure.

• After you are done, click Associate

Drill-down a Domain After you add a domain, you can click on it to view the details.

**Step 8: View your domain coverage**

The business users can visualize the entire data ecosystem and verify the map between the physical data elements to business/logical data models. The Coverage page helps you to view complete coverage information of selected columns which was curated using Machine Learning.

The Coverage tabular view lists the following:

• Each column has two rows of information:

o First row displays related Application → Database → Schema → Table → Column. Click on button for a column to display profile information details of that column

o The second row displays sample values contained in that column. Click on to expand to display further details of columns like metadata details, example values, profiling details, last profiled date and time, etc. You can collapse these details by clicking on .

o If the profile information is not known, the user can run the profiling for the column from the Run Profile button.

Provide Feedback

1. You can provide feedback using feedback buttons for a domain (available next to each domain or from Other recommendations section of each domain).

2. Click on positive feedback, for negative feedback and for neutral feedback. Depending on your feedback the score is updated.

**Step 9: Map your data landscape**

Semantic objects comprise domains. You can view all semantic objects created using the software from Transparency → Workspaces → Mapping block in the blue panel on the right. By default, all domains, whether software recommended, or the ones verified by users are listed.

The Mapping grid view lists the following:

• Name of the semantic object

• Description of semantic object

• List of domain names that are associated with the semantic object

• Username who created by and edited the semantic object with date and time

• Count and drillable details of child object, domain, tables and columns

• List of associated tags

**Add semantic object**

You can add a semantic object from this page.

• Click on Add Semantic Object button .

• In Add new Semantic Object window, add name and description to the semantic object.

• Provide list of associated domains from the list.

• After you are done, click Save .
